---
date: 2025-06-11T09:42:35+02:00
link: https://blog.samaltman.com/the-gentle-singularity
tags:
  - ai
  - future
  - singularity
  - innovation
summary: The future can be vastly better than the present
---
{{% marginnote %}}Found at "[The Gentle Singularity - Sam Altman](https://web.archive.org/web/20250611094235/https://blog.samaltman.com/the-gentle-singularity)" on 2025-06-11 09:42:35 +02:00.{{% /marginnote %}}

The singularity isn't a new concept. In 1999, Ray Kurzweil famously created the law of accelerating returns. Its gist is that the rate of change in evolution gets to a point where it increases exponentially. It's easy to believe that, in the exponential growth period, everything will be better, faster than before.

> (...) the gains to quality of life from AI driving faster scientific progress and increased productivity will be enormous; the future can be vastly better than the present.

Then it gets to a point where it's practically impossible to control and gains a life of its own—the singularity.

> It’s hard to even imagine today what we will have discovered by 2035; maybe we will go from solving high-energy physics one year to beginning space colonization the next year; or from a major materials science breakthrough one year to true high-bandwidth brain-computer interfaces the next year.

Ideas become more important than execution. Until now we've always been saying the opposite, that ideas really don't matter that much. What really matters is how you execute those ideas.

> For a long time, technical people in the startup industry have made fun of “the idea guys”; people who had an idea and were looking for a team to build it. It now looks to me like they are about to have their day in the sun.