---
title: Platform business
date: 2023-09-07T15:06:35+02:00
tags:
  - platform
  - business
  - API
  - UX
  - friction
  - retention
  - usage
  - monetization
summary: How can you create a platform business by enabling a two-sided market?
---

How can you create a platform business by enabling a two-sided market?  
  
First, let's see what a platform business is:
- Creates value by facilitating interactions and transactions between multiple groups, typically known as "sides."  
- The "sides" can be producers, consumers, or other participants who benefit from the platform's services and network effects.  
- Network effects create a virtuous cycle where growth attracts more participants to all sides of the platform.  
- Revenue is generated through monetization models that include transaction fees and subscriptions.  
  
Examples of platform businesses include Airbnb, YouTube, and Uber, among others.  
  
So, how do you enable a two-sided market?
- Increasing active usage: User commitment and active usage, not sign-ups or acquisitions, are the true indicators of customer adoption.
- Offering participation incentives: Users who participate obtain value that is organically aligned with the interactions made possible by the platform.
- Improving the UX: Every user interaction must be frictionless, including those done via an API.
  
APIs can help with the creation of a platform. However, they're not the only thing you need to consider when attempting to move into this type of business.